
# uWave VLBL

A project for estimating the geographic position of a remote [uWave](https://docs.unavlab.com/underwater_acoustic_modems_en.html#uwave) modem via the VLBL (virtual long baseline) technique.

uWave modes can remotely request depth, water temperature, and supply voltage of remote uWave modems along with measuring the signal propagation time. When the speed of sound is known, propagation time can be easily converted to the slant range. Since the local uWave can estimate its own depth and request the depth of a remote uWave, we can calculate the slant range projection to the water surface. Thus, every such request to a remote modem localizes the modem on a circle. When the local modem makes such requests from different geographic positions we have multiple circles that intersect. Mostly, in practice, there are will be two groups of points of intersection: a dense group where all points are laid inside a small area and all other points widely spread. The task of estimating the location of a stationary remote modem is the task of clusterization of the points of circles intersection: the mean point of the dense group is the location to find. The sketch just does this: stores coordinates from where the range to the remote modem was measured and tries to calculate the points of intersection. Circles can have 2, 1, or 0 intersections. And the case where they have 2 intersections is interesting for the task. Since we have two points we try to find out which point suits better which group of points. After that, we estimate DRMS values for both groups. The mean point (centroid) of the group with the smallest DRMS is the solution.
